**memchr > memmem > searcher**

# Module: memmem::searcher

## Contents

**Enums**

- [`PrefilterConfig`](#prefilterconfig) - Prefilter controls whether heuristics are used to accelerate searching.

---

## memchr::memmem::searcher::PrefilterConfig

*Enum*

Prefilter controls whether heuristics are used to accelerate searching.

A prefilter refers to the idea of detecting candidate matches very quickly,
and then confirming whether those candidates are full matches. This
idea can be quite effective since it's often the case that looking for
candidates can be a lot faster than running a complete substring search
over the entire input. Namely, looking for candidates can be done with
extremely fast vectorized code.

The downside of a prefilter is that it assumes false positives (which are
candidates generated by a prefilter that aren't matches) are somewhat rare
relative to the frequency of full matches. That is, if a lot of false
positives are generated, then it's possible for search time to be worse
than if the prefilter wasn't enabled in the first place.

Another downside of a prefilter is that it can result in highly variable
performance, where some cases are extraordinarily fast and others aren't.
Typically, variable performance isn't a problem, but it may be for your use
case.

The use of prefilters in this implementation does use a heuristic to detect
when a prefilter might not be carrying its weight, and will dynamically
disable its use. Nevertheless, this configuration option gives callers
the ability to disable prefilters if you have knowledge that they won't be
useful.

**Variants:**
- `None` - Never used a prefilter in substring search.
- `Auto` - Automatically detect whether a heuristic prefilter should be used. If

**Traits:** Copy

**Trait Implementations:**

- **Clone**
  - `fn clone(self: &Self) -> PrefilterConfig`
- **Debug**
  - `fn fmt(self: &Self, f: & mut $crate::fmt::Formatter) -> $crate::fmt::Result`
- **Default**
  - `fn default() -> PrefilterConfig`



