**rand_core**

# Module: rand_core

## Contents

**Modules**

- [`block`](#block) - The [`Generator`] trait and [`BlockRng`]
- [`utils`](#utils) - Utilties to aid trait implementations

**Traits**

- [`CryptoRng`](#cryptorng) - A marker trait for securely unpredictable infallible RNGs
- [`Rng`](#rng) - Trait for infallible random number generators
- [`RngCore`](#rngcore) - DEPRECATED: stub trait to print a deprecation warning and aid discovering that [`Rng`] is the
- [`TryCryptoRng`](#trycryptorng) - A marker trait over [`TryRng`] for securely unpredictable RNGs
- [`TryRng`](#tryrng) - Base trait for random number generators and random data sources
- [`TryRngCore`](#tryrngcore) - DEPRECATED: stub trait to print a deprecation warning and aid discovering that [`TryRng`] is the

---

## rand_core::CryptoRng

*Trait*

A marker trait for securely unpredictable infallible RNGs

This is a convenient trait alias for <code>[TryCryptoRng]<Error = [Infallible]></code>.
It is equivalent to the trait sum <code>[Rng] + [TryCryptoRng]</code>.



## rand_core::Rng

*Trait*

Trait for infallible random number generators

`Rng` is a sub-trait of [`TryRng`] for infallible generators.

# Requirements

See [`TryRng`#Requirements] which also apply here.

# Usage

The [`rand`] crate provides higher level functionality, for example
generation of floating-point values, uniform ranged sampling and shuffling
sequences. In particular, [`rand::RngExt`] is an extension trait over `Rng`
providing many of the methods one might expect to be able to use on an RNG.

# Implementing `Rng`

Implement [`TryRng`] with <code>type Error = [core::convert::Infallible][]</code>.

[`rand`]: https://docs.rs/rand/
[`rand::RngExt`]: https://docs.rs/rand/latest/rand/trait.RngExt.html
[`fill_bytes`]: Rng::fill_bytes
[`next_u32`]: Rng::next_u32
[`next_u64`]: Rng::next_u64

**Methods:**

- `next_u32`: Return the next random `u32`.
- `next_u64`: Return the next random `u64`.
- `fill_bytes`: Fill `dest` with random data.



## rand_core::RngCore

*Trait*

DEPRECATED: stub trait to print a deprecation warning and aid discovering that [`Rng`] is the
replacement.



## rand_core::TryCryptoRng

*Trait*

A marker trait over [`TryRng`] for securely unpredictable RNGs

This marker trait indicates that the implementing generator is intended,
when correctly seeded and protected from side-channel attacks such as a
leaking of state, to be a cryptographically secure generator. This trait is
provided as a tool to aid review of cryptographic code, but does not by
itself guarantee suitability for cryptographic applications.

Formally, a CSPRNG (Cryptographically Secure Pseudo-Random Number Generator)
should satisfy an additional property over other generators: assuming that
the generator has been appropriately seeded and has unknown state, then
given the first *k* bits of an algorithm's output
sequence, it should not be possible using polynomial-time algorithms to
predict the next bit with probability significantly greater than 50%.

An optional property of CSPRNGs is backtracking resistance: if the CSPRNG's
state is revealed, it will not be computationally-feasible to reconstruct
prior output values. This property is not required by `CryptoRng`.

Implementors of `TryCryptoRng` should only implement [`Default`] if a
default-constructed instance is itself a secure generator, for example
[`getrandom::SysRng`] which is a stateless interface.

[`getrandom::SysRng`]: https://docs.rs/getrandom/latest/getrandom/struct.SysRng.html



## rand_core::TryRng

*Trait*

Base trait for random number generators and random data sources

This trait provides a base interface designed to support efficient usage of
(`u32`, `u64`) word generators, block generators and random data sources.
There is no required relationship between the output of each method or any
requirement to use all generated random bits; for example an implementation
of [`try_fill_bytes`](Self::try_fill_bytes) may discard some generated bytes
to avoid storing a partially used word or block.

# Requirements

### Quality and length

Implementions should produce bits uniformly: each output value should be
equally likely, without observable patterns in successive outputs or
between the output streams of multiple instances of an implementation using
different seeds or streams (where supported by the implementation).

Pathological implementations (e.g. constant or counting generators which
rarely change some bits) may cause issues in consumers of random data, for
example dead-locks in rejection samplers and obviously non-random output
(e.g. a counting generator may result in apparently-constant output from a
uniform-ranged distribution).

Cryptographically unpredictable output is not a requirement of this trait,
but is a requirement of [`TryCryptoRng`].

In practice, most implementations are pseudo-random number generators with a
finite *period* or *cycle length*, and (among non-cryptographic PRNGs)
statistical anomalies may appear long before a cycle occurs. An
implementation should ensure its period is sufficiently long that no
anomalies are likely to appear in usage and/or document its limitations.

For more on PRNG quality and period, see [The Rust Rand Book: Quality][0].

[0]: https://rust-random.github.io/book/guide-rngs.html#quality

### Reproducibility

Algorithmic generators implementing [`SeedableRng`] should normally have
*portable, reproducible* output, i.e. fix Endianness when converting values
to avoid platform differences, and avoid making any changes which affect
output (except by communicating that the release has breaking changes).
See also [The Rust Rand Book: Reproducibility][1].

[1]: https://rust-random.github.io/book/crate-reprod.html

# Usage

Often, usage of the infallible trait [`Rng`] or its extension trait
[`rand::Rng`] is preferred to direct usage of `TryRng`.
Many implementations of `TryRng` (those with <code>type Error = [Infallible][]</code>)
already implement [`Rng`]; in other cases [`UnwrapErr`] may be used to obtain
an implementation of [`Rng`].

# Implementing `TryRng`

Most algorithmic generators (i.e. pseudo-random number generators or PRNGs)
never fail; in this case type `Error` should be [`Infallible`]; in this case
trait `Rng` is implemented automatically. Cycling is not considered an
error.

Small PRNGs often yield either `u32` or `u64` natively.
Module [`crate::utils`] provides utilities to help implement other methods.

Byte sources may implement [`try_fill_bytes`](Self::try_fill_bytes)
natively.
Module [`crate::utils`] provides utilities to help implement other methods.

Block generators (which produce `[u32; N]` or `[u64; N]` for some fixed `N`)
should make use of the [`crate::block`] module.

With regards to other traits:

- **Do not** implement [`Default`] for seedable pseudorandom generators,
  though the trait may be implemented for stateless interfaces and
  auto-seeding generators.
- **Do** implement [`SeedableRng`] for seedable pseudorandom generators. See
  [Reproducibility](#reproducibility) above.
- Implement [`Clone`] for non-cryptographic PRNGs but consider not doing so
  for cryptographic generators to avoid the risk of key-stream duplication.
- **Do not** implement [`Copy`] since accidental copies may cause repeated
  values.
- Implement [`Debug`](core::fmt::Debug), except that cryptographic PRNGs
  should use a custom implementation which avoids leaking internal state (or
  the subset of this derived from the key).
- [`Eq`] and [`PartialEq`] could be implemented, but are probably not useful.

[`rand::Rng`]: https://docs.rs/rand/latest/rand/trait.Rng.html

**Methods:**

- `Error`: The type returned in the event of a RNG error.
- `try_next_u32`: Return the next random `u32`.
- `try_next_u64`: Return the next random `u64`.
- `try_fill_bytes`: Fill `dst` entirely with random data.



## rand_core::TryRngCore

*Trait*

DEPRECATED: stub trait to print a deprecation warning and aid discovering that [`TryRng`] is the
replacement.

**Methods:**

- `Error`: Error type.



## Module: block

The [`Generator`] trait and [`BlockRng`]

Trait [`Generator`] may be implemented by block-generators; that is PRNGs
whose output is a *block* of words, such as `[u32; 16]`.

The struct [`BlockRng`] wraps such a [`Generator`] together with an output
buffer and implements several methods (e.g. [`BlockRng::next_word`]) to
assist in the implementation of [`TryRng`]. Note that (unlike in earlier
versions of `rand_core`) [`BlockRng`] itself does not implement [`TryRng`]
since in practice we found it was always beneficial to use a wrapper type
over [`BlockRng`].

# Example

```
use core::convert::Infallible;
use rand_core::{Rng, SeedableRng, TryRng};
use rand_core::block::{Generator, BlockRng};

struct MyRngCore {
    // Generator state ...
#    state: [u32; 8],
}

impl Generator for MyRngCore {
    type Output = [u32; 8];

    fn generate(&mut self, output: &mut Self::Output) {
        // Write a new block to output...
#        *output = self.state;
    }
}

// Our RNG is a wrapper over BlockRng
pub struct MyRng(BlockRng<MyRngCore>);

impl SeedableRng for MyRng {
    type Seed = [u8; 32];
    fn from_seed(seed: Self::Seed) -> Self {
        let core = MyRngCore {
            // ...
#            state: rand_core::utils::read_words(&seed),
        };
        MyRng(BlockRng::new(core))
    }
}

impl TryRng for MyRng {
    type Error = Infallible;

    #[inline]
    fn try_next_u32(&mut self) -> Result<u32, Infallible> {
        Ok(self.0.next_word())
    }

    #[inline]
    fn try_next_u64(&mut self) -> Result<u64, Infallible> {
        Ok(self.0.next_u64_from_u32())
    }

    #[inline]
    fn try_fill_bytes(&mut self, bytes: &mut [u8]) -> Result<(), Infallible> {
        Ok(self.0.fill_bytes(bytes))
    }
}

// And if applicable: impl TryCryptoRng for MyRng {}

let mut rng = MyRng::seed_from_u64(0);
println!("First value: {}", rng.next_u32());
# assert_eq!(rng.next_u32(), 1171109249);
```

[`TryRng`]: crate::TryRng
[`SeedableRng`]: crate::SeedableRng



## Module: utils

Utilties to aid trait implementations

## Portability

For cross-platform reproducibility, Little-Endian order (least-significant
part first) has been chosen as the standard for inter-type conversion.
For example, [`next_u64_via_u32`] generates two `u32` values `x, y`,
then outputs `(y << 32) | x`.

Byte-swapping (like the std `to_le` functions) is only needed to convert
to/from byte sequences, and since its purpose is reproducibility,
non-reproducible sources (e.g. `OsRng`) need not bother with it.

## Implementing [`TryRng`]

Usually an implementation of [`TryRng`] will implement one of the three
methods over its internal source. The following helpers are provided for
the remaining implementations.

**`fn try_next_u32`:**
-   `self.next_u64() as u32`
-   `(self.next_u64() >> 32) as u32`
-   <code>[next_word_via_fill][](self)</code>

**`fn try_next_u64`:**
-   <code>[next_u64_via_u32][](self)</code>
-   <code>[next_word_via_fill][](self)</code>

**`fn try_fill_bytes`:**
-   <code>[fill_bytes_via_next_word][](self, dest)</code>

## Implementing [`SeedableRng`]

In many cases, [`SeedableRng::Seed`] must be converted to `[u32; _]` or
`[u64; _]`. [`read_words`] may be used for this.

[`SeedableRng`]: crate::SeedableRng
[`SeedableRng::Seed`]: crate::SeedableRng::Seed

## Example

We demonstrate a simple multiplicative congruential generator (MCG), taken
from M.E. O'Neill's blog post [Does It Beat the Minimal Standard?][0].

[0]: https://www.pcg-random.org/posts/does-it-beat-the-minimal-standard.html

```
use core::convert::Infallible;
use rand_core::{Rng, SeedableRng, TryRng, utils};

pub struct Mcg128(u128);

impl SeedableRng for Mcg128 {
    type Seed = [u8; 16];

    #[inline]
    fn from_seed(seed: Self::Seed) -> Self {
        // Always use little-endian byte order to ensure portable results
        Self(u128::from_le_bytes(seed))
    }
}

impl TryRng for Mcg128 {
    type Error = Infallible;

    #[inline]
    fn try_next_u32(&mut self) -> Result<u32, Infallible> {
        Ok((self.next_u64() >> 32) as u32)
    }

    #[inline]
    fn try_next_u64(&mut self) -> Result<u64, Infallible> {
        self.0 = self.0.wrapping_mul(0x0fc94e3bf4e9ab32866458cd56f5e605);
        Ok((self.0 >> 64) as u64)
    }

    #[inline]
    fn try_fill_bytes(&mut self, dst: &mut [u8]) -> Result<(), Infallible> {
        utils::fill_bytes_via_next_word(dst, || self.try_next_u64())
    }
}
#
# let mut rng = Mcg128::seed_from_u64(42);
# assert_eq!(rng.next_u32(), 3443086493);
# assert_eq!(rng.next_u64(), 3462997187007721903);
# let mut buf = [0u8; 5];
# rng.fill_bytes(&mut buf);
# assert_eq!(buf, [154, 23, 43, 68, 75]);
```



