**tock_registers > debug**

# Module: debug

## Contents

**Structs**

- [`RegisterDebugValue`](#registerdebugvalue) - `RegisterDebugValue` captures a register's value and implements

**Enums**

- [`FieldValueEnumCons`](#fieldvalueenumcons) - List element for the [`FieldValueEnumSeq`] sequence.
- [`FieldValueEnumNil`](#fieldvalueenumnil) - End-of-list type for the [`FieldValueEnumSeq`] sequence.

**Traits**

- [`FieldValueEnumSeq`](#fieldvalueenumseq) - `FieldValueEnumSeq` is a debug helper trait representing a sequence of
- [`RegisterDebugInfo`](#registerdebuginfo) - [`RegisterDebugInfo`] exposes debugging information from register types.

---

## tock_registers::debug::FieldValueEnumCons

*Enum*

List element for the [`FieldValueEnumSeq`] sequence.

**Generic Parameters:**
- U
- H
- T

**Variants:**
- `_Impossible(core::convert::Infallible, core::marker::PhantomData<U>, core::marker::PhantomData<H>, core::marker::PhantomData<T>)`

**Trait Implementations:**

- **FieldValueEnumSeq**
  - `fn recurse_try_from_value<impl FnMut() -> U, impl FnMut(&dyn fmt::Debug)>(data: & mut impl Trait, f: & mut impl Trait)`



## tock_registers::debug::FieldValueEnumNil

*Enum*

End-of-list type for the [`FieldValueEnumSeq`] sequence.

**Trait Implementations:**

- **FieldValueEnumSeq**
  - `fn recurse_try_from_value<impl FnMut() -> U, impl FnMut(&dyn fmt::Debug)>(_data: & mut impl Trait, _f: & mut impl Trait)`



## tock_registers::debug::FieldValueEnumSeq

*Trait*

`FieldValueEnumSeq` is a debug helper trait representing a sequence of
[field enum types](crate::fields::Field::read_as_enum).

It provides methods to recurse through this sequence of types and thus call
methods on them, such as
[`try_from_value`](crate::fields::TryFromValue::try_from_value).

Its primary use lies in the [`RegisterDebugInfo`] trait. This trait provides
facilities useful for providing information on the layout of a register
(such as, which fields it has and which known values those fields can
assume). Such information is usually only available at compile time. This
trait makes runtime-representable data available at runtime. However,
information encoded solely in types can't simply be used at runtime, which
is where this trait comes in.

**Methods:**

- `recurse_try_from_value`: Iterates over the sequence of types and performs the following steps:



## tock_registers::debug::RegisterDebugInfo

*Trait*

[`RegisterDebugInfo`] exposes debugging information from register types.

The exposed information is composed of both types (such as the individual
[field enum types](crate::fields::Field::read_as_enum) generated by the
[`crate::register_bitfields`] macro), as well as runtime-queryable
information in the form of data.

Where applicable, the index of type information and runtime-queryable data
match. For instance, the `i`th element of the
[`RegisterDebugInfo::FieldValueEnumTypes`] associated type sequence
corresponds to the `i`th element of the array returned by the
[`RegisterDebugInfo::field_names`] method.

**Methods:**

- `FieldValueEnumTypes`: Associated type representing a sequence of all field-value enum types of
- `name`: The name of the register.
- `field_names`: The names of the fields in the register.
- `fields`: The fields of a register.



## tock_registers::debug::RegisterDebugValue

*Struct*

`RegisterDebugValue` captures a register's value and implements
[`fmt::Debug`] to provide a human-readable representation of the register
state.

Its usage incurs the inclusion of additional data into the final binary,
such as the names of all register fields and defined field value variants
(see [`crate::fields::Field::read_as_enum`]).

This type contains a local copy of the register value used for providing
debug information. It will not access the actual backing register.

**Generic Parameters:**
- T
- E

**Fields:**
- `data: T`
- `_reg: core::marker::PhantomData<E>`

**Trait Implementations:**

- **Debug**
  - `fn fmt(self: &Self, f: & mut fmt::Formatter) -> fmt::Result`



